#summary Adam's thoughts on how the project is progressing.

== 2009-04-06 ==
I figure its time to start keeping a blog on my adventures with Openoffice and natural languages. Mostly for my personal musings but if this helps anyone else all the better.

Over the last week or so I've been trying to find ways to make the graph more readable, its still small but even with its current size its very cluttered and hard to follow. Over the weekend I've completly re-written the graph-display code to use a modified spring-only force based algorithm for arranging the nodes. It's definitly an improvement but more needs to be done. The next change I can think of is to remove the end node, and flag certain punctuation as an 'end of sentance' token. These special tokens should not allow merges. This would make the graph form a star-like pattern from the start, reducing the overall interconnectedness  of the graph and making it more readable.

After spending most of the weekend trying to get an OpenOffice plugin to work with no success I'm about to try another approach, and grab the source of an existing tool (called Language Tool) and strip out its logic and use it as a shell for our plugin. It gives me respect for Marcin Miłkowski, the developer of the LT oo plugin. Almost every time I've found myself stuck against a wall and go googling I find an old mailing list post from Marcin detailing his previous adventures.

Well now that I've had a quick interlude I'm going to make a start stripping his brilliant little app and see if I cant track down my issue.

*UPDATE:* A few hours later and I have a working proof-of-concept. Admitidly it dosent do a whole lot (just flags everything as bad) but it is a nice starting point. Im not sure what went wrong with the original code I wrote, but at this point im happy just to have a working plugin. Tomorrow I'll start integrating it into HEAD. 